Independent Submission                             Phillip Hallam-Baker
INTERNET-DRAFT                                      ThresholdSecrets.com
Intended Status:                                           March 9, 2020
Expires: September 10, 2020


            Mathematical Mesh 3.0 Part I: Architecture Guide
                 draft-hallambaker-mesh-architecture-13

Abstract

   The Mathematical Mesh 'The Mesh' is an end-to-end secure
   infrastructure that makes computers easier to use by making them more
   secure. The Mesh provides a set of protocol and cryptographic
   building blocks that enable encrypted data stored in the cloud to be
   accessed, managed and exchanged between users with the same or better
   ease of use than traditional approaches which leave the data
   vulnerable to attack.

   This document provides an overview of the Mesh data structures,
   protocols and examples of its use.

   [Note to Readers]

   Discussion of this draft takes place on the MATHMESH mailing list
   (mathmesh@ietf.org), which is archived at
   https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/search/?email_list=mathmesh.

   This document is also available online at .

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts. The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at http://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material
   or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on September 10, 2020

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document
   authors. All rights reserved.





Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020               [Page 1]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document. Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.
















































Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020               [Page 2]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
   2.  Definitions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
      2.1.  Related Specifications  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
      2.2.  Defined Terms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
      2.3.  Requirements Language . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
      2.4.  Implementation Status . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
   3.  Architecture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
      3.1.  A Personal PKI  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
         3.1.1.  Device Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
         3.1.2.  Exchange of trusted credentials. . . . . . . . . . . 10
         3.1.3.  Application configuration management . . . . . . . . 11
         3.1.4.  The Mesh as platform . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
      3.2.  Mesh Architecture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
         3.2.1.  Mesh Device Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
         3.2.2.  Mesh Account . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
         3.2.3.  Mesh Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
         3.2.4.  Mesh Messaging . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
      3.3.  Using the Mesh with Applications  . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
         3.3.1.  Contact Exchange . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
         3.3.2.  Confirmation Protocol  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
         3.3.3.  Future Applications  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
   4.  Mesh Cryptography  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
      4.1.  Best Practice by Default  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
      4.2.  Multi-Level Security  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
      4.3.  Multi-Key Decryption  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
      4.4.  Multi-Party Key Generation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
      4.5.  Data At Rest Encryption . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
         4.5.1.  DARE Envelope  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
         4.5.2.  Dare Container . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
      4.6.  Uniform Data Fingerprints.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
         4.6.1.  Friendly Names . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
         4.6.2.  Encrypted Authenticated Resource Locators  . . . . . 21
         4.6.3.  Secure Internet Names  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
      4.7.  Personal Key Escrow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
   5.  User Experience  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
      5.1.  Creating a Mesh Profile and Administration Device.  . . . 23
      5.2.  Mesh Accounts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
      5.3.  Using a Mesh Service  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
      5.4.  Connecting and Authorizing Additional Devices . . . . . . 25
         5.4.1.  Direct Connection  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
         5.4.2.  Pin Connection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
         5.4.3.  EARL/QR Code Connection  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
      5.5.  Contact Requests  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
         5.5.1.  Remote . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
         5.5.2.  Static QR Code . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
         5.5.3.  Dynamic QR Code  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
      5.6.  Sharing Confidential Data in the Cloud  . . . . . . . . . 30
      5.7.  Escrow and Recovery of Keys . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
   6.  Security Considerations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33



Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020               [Page 3]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

   7.  IANA Considerations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
   8.  Acknowledgements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
   References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
      Normative References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
   Author's Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35

















































Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020               [Page 4]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

1. Introduction

   The Mathematical Mesh (Mesh) is a user centered Public Key
   Infrastructure that uses cryptography to make computers easier to
   use. The Mesh provides an infrastructure that addresses the three
   concerns that have proved obstacles to the use of end-to-end security
   in computer applications:

         *  Device management.

         *  Exchange of trusted credentials.

         *  Application configuration management.

   The infrastructure developed to address these original motivating
   concerns can be used to facilitate deployment and use of existing
   security protocols (OpenPGP, S/MIME, SSH) and as a platform for
   building end-to-end secure network applications. Current Mesh
   applications include:

         *  Multi-factor authentication and confirmation

         *  Credential management

         *  Bookmark/Citation management

         *  Task and workflow management

   A core principle of the design of the Mesh is that each person is
   their own source of authority. They may choose to delegate that
   authority to another to act on their behalf (i.e. a Trusted Third
   Party) and they may choose to surrender parts of that authority to
   others (e.g. an employer) for limited times and limited purposes.

   Thus, from the user's point of view, the Mesh is divided into two
   parts. The first and most important of these from their point of view
   being their own personal Mesh. The second being the ensemble of every
   Mesh to which their Mesh is connected. As with the Internet, which is
   a network of networks, a Mesh of Meshes has certain properties that
   are similar to those of its constituent parts and some that are very
   different.

   This document is not normative. It provides an overview of the Mesh
   comprising a description of the architecture, and a discussion of
   typical use cases and requirements. The remainder of the document
   series provides a summary of the principal components of the Mesh
   architecture and their relationship to each other.

   Normative descriptions of the individual Mesh encodings, data
   structures and protocols are provided in separate documents
   addressing each component in turn.



Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020               [Page 5]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020


   The currently available Mesh document series comprises:

         I. Architecture (This document.)

         II. Uniform Data Fingerprint .

         III. Data at Rest Encryption .

         IV. Schema Reference .

         V. Protocol Reference .

         VI. The Trust Mesh .

         VII. Security Considerations

         VIII Cryptographic Algorithms .

   The following documents describe technologies that are used in the
   Mesh but do not form part of the Mesh specification suite:

         JSON-BCD Encoding .

         DNS Web Service Discovery .

   The following documents describe aspects of the Mesh Reference
   implementation:

         Mesh Developer .

         Mesh Platform .

2. Definitions

   This section presents the related specifications and standards on
   which the Mesh is built, the terms that are used as terms of art
   within the Mesh protocols and applications and the terms used as
   requirements language.

2.1. Related Specifications

   Besides the documents that form the Mesh core, the Mesh makes use of
   many existing Internet standards, including:

         Cryptographic Algorithms

         Transport

         Encoding




Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020               [Page 6]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

2.2. Defined Terms

   TBS

2.3. Requirements Language

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
   document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 .

2.4. Implementation Status

   The implementation status of the reference code base is described in
   the companion document .

   The examples in this document were created on 1/22/2020 1:19:03 AM.
   Out of 170 examples, 67 were not functional.

   [Note: Example data is now being produced using the mesh command line
   tool which is currently substantially less complete than the Mesh
   reference code it is intended to provide an interface to. As a
   result, the documentation currently lags the code by more than is
   usual.]

3. Architecture

   The Mathematical Mesh (Mesh) is a user centered Public Key
   Infrastructure that uses cryptography to make computers easier to
   use. This document describes version 3.0 of the Mesh architecture and
   protocols.

   For several decades, it has been widely noted that most users are
   either unwilling or unable to make even the slightest efforts to
   protect their security, still less those of other parties. Yet
   despite this observation being widespread, the efforts of the IT
   security community have largely focused on changing this user
   behavior rather that designing applications that respect it. Real
   users have real work to do and have neither the time nor the
   inclination to use tools that will negatively impact their
   performance.

   The Mesh is based on the principle that if the Internet is to be
   secure, if must become effortless to use applications securely.
   Rather than beginning the design process by imagining all the
   possible modes of attack and working out how to address these with
   the least possible inconvenience, we must reverse the question and
   ask how much security can be provided without requiring any effort on
   the user's part to address it.






Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020               [Page 7]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

   Today's technology requires users to put their trust in an endless
   variety of devices, software and services they cannot fully
   understand let alone control. Even the humble television of the 20^th
   century has been replaced by a 'smart' TV with 15 million lines of
   code. Whose undeclared capabilities may well include placing the room
   in which it is placed under continuous audio and video surveillance.

   Every technology deployment by necessity requires some degree of
   trust on the owner/user's part. But this trust should be limited and
   subject to accountability. If manufacturers continue to fail in this
   regard, they risk a backlash in which users seek to restore their
   rights through litigation, legislation or worst of all, simply not
   buying more technology that they have learned to distrust through
   their own experience.

   The Mesh is based on the principle of radical distrust, that is, if a
   party is capable of defecting, we assume that they will. As the
   Russian proverb goes: ???????, ?? ????????: trust, but verify.

   In the 1990s, the suggestion that 'hackers' might seek to make
   financial gains from their activities was denounced as 'fear-
   mongering'. The suggestion that email or anonymous currencies might
   be abused received a similar response. Today malware, ransomware and
   spam have become so ubiquitous that they are no longer news unless
   the circumstances are particularly egregious.

   We must dispense with the notion that it is improper or impolite to
   question the good faith of technology suppliers of any kind whether
   they be manufacturers, service providers, software authors or
   reviewers. Modern supply chains are complex, typically involving
   hundreds if not thousands of potential points of deliberate or
   accidental compromise. The technology provider who relies on the
   presumption of good faith on their part risks serious damage to their
   reputation when others assert that a capability added to their
   product may have malign uses.

   Radical distrust means that we apply the principles of least
   principle and accountability at every level in the design:

         *  Cryptographic keys installed in a product during manufacture
            are only used for the limited purpose of putting that device
            under control of the user.

         *  Cryptographic keys and assertions related to management of
            devices are only visible to the user they belong to and are
            never exposed to external parties.

         *  Mesh Accounts belong to and are under control of the user
            they belong to and not the Mesh Service provider which the
            user can change at will with minimal inconvenience.




Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020               [Page 8]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

         *  Mesh Services do not have access to the plaintext of any
            Mesh Messages or Mesh Catalog data except for the Contacts
            catalog.

         *  All Mesh Messages are subject to access control by both the
            inbound and outbound Mesh Service to mitigate messaging
            abuse.

   Security is risk management and not the elimination of all
   possibility of any risk. Radical distrust means that we raise the bar
   for attackers to the point where for most attackers the risk is
   greater than the reward.

   In addition to distrusting technology providers the Mesh Architecture
   allows the user to limit the degree of trust they place in
   themselves. In the real world, devices are lost or stolen, passwords
   and activation codes are forgotten, natural or man-made catastrophes
   cause property and data to be lost. The Mesh permits but does not
   require use of escrow techniques that allow recovery from such
   situations.

3.1. A Personal PKI

   The Mesh is a Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) that is designed to
   address the three major obstacles to deployment of end-to-end secure
   applications:

         *  Device management.

         *  Exchange of trusted credentials.

         *  Application configuration management.

   Each Mesh user is the ultimate source of authority in their Personal
   Mesh which specifies the set of devices, contacts and applications
   that they trust and for what purposes.

   The Mesh 1.0 architecture described a PKI designed to meet these
   limited requirements to enable use of existing end-to-end secure
   Internet protocols such as OpenPGP, S/MIME and SSH. Since these
   protocols only secure data in transit and the vast majority of data
   breaches involve data at rest, the Data At Rest Encryption (DARE) was
   added as a layered application resulting in the Mesh 2.0
   architecture. This document describes the Mesh 3.0 architecture which
   has been entirely re-worked so that DARE provides the platform on
   which all other Mesh functions are built.








Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020               [Page 9]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

3.1.1. Device Management

   Existing PKIs were developed in an era when the 'personal computer'
   was still coming into being. Only a small number of people owned a
   computer and an even smaller number owned more than one. Today,
   computers are ubiquitous and a typical home in the developed world
   contains several hundred of which a dozen or more may have some form
   of network access.

   The modern consumer faces a problem of device management that is
   considerably more complex than the IT administrator of a small
   business might have faced in the 1990s but without any of the network
   management tools such an administrator would expect to have
   available.

   One important consequence of the proliferation of devices is that
   end-to-end security is no longer sufficient. To be acceptable to
   users, a system must be ends-to-ends secure. That is, a user must be
   able to read their encrypted email message on their laptop, tablet,
   phone, or watch with exactly the same ease of use as if the mail was
   unencrypted.

   Each personal Mesh contains a device catalog in which the
   cryptographic credentials and device specific application
   configurations for each connected device are stored.

   Management of the device catalog is restricted to a subset of devices
   that the owner of the Mesh has specifically authorized for that
   purpose as administration devices. Only a device with access to a
   duly authorized administration key can add or remove devices from a
   personal Mesh.

3.1.2. Exchange of trusted credentials.

   One of the most challenging, certainly the most contentious issues in
   PKI is the means by which cryptographic credentials are published and
   validated.

   The Mesh does not attempt to impose criteria for accepting
   credentials as valid as no such set of criteria can be comprehensive.
   Rather the Mesh allows users to make use of the credential validation
   criteria that are appropriate to the purpose for which they intend to
   use them and Mesh Services provides protocol support for exchange of
   credentials between users and to synchronize credential information
   between all the devices belonging to a user.

   In some circumstances, only a direct trust model is acceptable, in
   others, only a trusted third-party model is possible and in the vast
   majority of cases opportunistic approaches are more than sufficient.
   Both approaches may be reinforced by use of chained notary
   certificate (e.g. BlockChain) technology affords a means of



Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 10]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

   establishing that a particular assertion was made before a certain
   date. The management of Trust in the Mesh is described in detail in .

3.1.3. Application configuration management

   Configuration of cryptographic applications is typically worse than
   an afterthought. Configuration of one popular mail user agent to use
   S/MIME security requires 17 steps to be performed using four separate
   application programs. And since S/MIME certificates expire, the user
   is required to repeat these steps every few years. Contrary to the
   public claims made by one major software vendor it is not necessary
   to perform 'usability testing' to recognize abject stupidity.

   Rather than writing down configuration steps and giving them to the
   user, we should turn them into code and give them to a machine. Users
   should never be required to do the work of the machine. Nor should
   any programmer be allowed to insult the user by casting their effort
   aside and requiring it to be re-entered.

   While most computer professionals who are required to do such tasks
   on a regular basis will create a tool for the purpose, most users do
   not have that option. And of those who do write their own tools, only
   a few have the time and the knowledge to do the job without
   introducing security vulnerabilities.

3.1.4. The Mesh as platform

   Meeting the core objectives of the Mesh required new naming,
   communication and cryptographic capabilities provided to be
   developed. These capabilities may in turn be used to develop new end-
   to-end secure applications.

   For example, a DARE Catalog is a cryptographic container in which the
   entries represent a set of objects which may be added, updated and
   deleted over time. The Mesh Service protocol allows DARE Catalogs to
   be synchronized between devices connected to a Mesh Account. DARE
   Catalogs are used as the basis for the device and contacts catalogs
   referred to above.

   The Mesh Credentials Catalog uses the same DARE Catalog format and
   Mesh Service protocol to share passwords between devices with end-to-
   end encryption so that no password data is ever left unencrypted in
   the cloud.











Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 11]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

3.2. Mesh Architecture

   The Mesh has four principal components:

         Mesh Device Management

         Mesh Account

         Mesh Service

         Mesh Messaging

   A user's Personal Mesh is the set of their Personal Mesh Profiles,
   Mesh Accounts and the Mesh Services to which they are bound.

   For example, Figure X shows Alice's personal Mesh which have separate
   accounts for her personal and business affairs. She has many devices,
   two of which are shown here. Both are linked to her personal account
   but only one is linked to her business account. Besides allowing
   Alice to separate work and pleasure, this separation means that she
   does not need to worry about her business affairs being compromised
   if the device Alice2 is stolen.

   Alice's ProfileMaster contains a Master Signature Key used to sign
   the profile itself and one or more Administrator Signature Keys used
   to sign assertions binding devices and/or assertions to her Mesh.

   If desired, Alice can escrow the master key associated with her
   Profile Master and delete it from her device(s), thus ensuring that
   compromise of the device does not result in a permanent compromise of
   her personal Mesh. Recovery of the Master Signature Key and the
   associated Master Encryption Escrow keys (not shown) allows Alice to
   recover her entire digital life.

   To eliminate the risk of hardware failure, the escrow scheme offered
   by the Mesh itself uses key shares printed on paper and an encrypted
   escrow record stored in the cloud. Mesh users are of course free to
   use alternative escrow means of their choice.

3.2.1. Mesh Device Management

   Mesh devices are added to or removed from a user's personal Mesh by
   adding or removing Device catalog entries from the CatalogDevice
   associated with the Master Profile.

   Device catalog entries are created by devices that have been
   provisioned with an administration key specified in the corresponding
   ProfileMaster






Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 12]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

   The keying material used by a device in the context of a user's
   personal Mesh comes from two separate sources:

         *  Keying material specified in the ProfileDevice which is
            either generated on the device itself or installed during
            manufacture.

         *  Keying material provided by the Administration Device during
            the connection process.

   This approach mitigates the risk of keying material used by the
   device being compromised during or after manufacture and the risks
   associated with use of weak keys. The key combination mechanism is
   shown in section XX below and described in detail in .

   In accordance with the principle of maintaining cryptographic
   hygiene, separate keys are generated for signature, authentication
   and encryption purposes.

3.2.2. Mesh Account

   Mesh Accounts comprise a collection of persistent data stores
   associated with a particular persona associated with a personal Mesh.
   The connection between a Mesh Account and the personal Mesh to which
   it belongs may or may not be public. For example, Alice might allow
   her contacts to know that her business and personal accounts belong
   to the same personal Mesh and thus the same person but Bob might not.

   Mesh Accounts afford similar functionality to the accounts provided
   by traditional Internet protocols and applications but with the
   important distinction that they belong to the user and not the
   service provider. A Mesh Account may be connected to one, many or no
   Mesh Services and the user may add or delete service providers at any
   time.

   A Mesh Account that is not connected to a Service is called an
   offline account. Offline accounts cannot send or receive Mesh
   Messages and cannot be synchronized using the Mesh Service protocol
   (but may be synchronized through other means).

   When a Mesh Account is connected to multiple services, only the first
   service is normally regarded as being primary with the others being
   secondary accounts for use in case of need.

   Alice's personal account is connected to two devices and two services
   (alice@example.com and alice@example.net).

   As with the connection of the device to Alice's personal Mesh, the
   connection of each device to each account requires the creation of a
   separate set of keying using the same key combination mechanism
   described above. This information is contained in the



Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 13]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

   ActivationAccount record corresponding to the account in the
   CatalogEntryDevice.

   Note that even though Alice's personal account is connected to two
   separate Mesh Services, the same cryptographic keys are used for
   both. However separate keys are used for her personal and business
   accounts so as to prevent these accounts being linked through use of
   the same device keys.

3.2.2.1. Account Catalogs

   Mesh Catalogs are a DARE Containers whose entries represent a set of
   objects with no inherent ordering. Examples of Mesh catalogs include:

         Devices

         Contacts

         Application

         Bookmarks

         Credentials

         Calendar

         Network

   The Devices and Contacts catalogues have special functions in the
   Mesh as they describe the set of devices and other users that a Mesh
   user interacts with.

   These catalogs are also used as the basis for providing a consistent
   set of friendly names to the users devices and contacts that is
   accessible to all her devices. This (in principle) allows Alice to
   give a voice command to her car or her watch or her phone to call a
   person or open a door and expect consistent results.

3.2.3. Mesh Service

   Each Mesh Service is described by a ProfileService signed by a long-
   lived signature key. As with the ProfileMaster, a separate set of
   Administrator keys is used to sign the Assertion Host objects used to
   credential Service Hosts.

   Note that the Mesh Service Authentication mechanism only provides
   trust after first use. It does not provide a mechanism for secure
   introduction. A Mesh Service SHOULD be credentialed by means of a
   validation process that establishes the accountability. For example,
   the CA-Browser Forum Extended Validation Requirements.




Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 14]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

3.2.4. Mesh Messaging

   The Mesh Messaging layer supports the exchange of short (less than
   32KB) messages. Mesh devices connected to the same Mesh profile may
   exchange Mesh Messages directly. Messages exchanged between Mesh
   Users MUST be mediated by a Mesh Service for both sending and
   receipt. This 'four corner' pattern permits ingress and egress
   controls to be enforced on the messages and that every message is
   properly recorded in the appropriate spools.

   For example, To send a message to Alice, Bob posts it to one of the
   Mesh Services connected to the Mesh Account from which the message is
   to be sent. The Mesh Service checks to see that both the message and
   Bob's pattern of behavior comply with their acceptable use policy and
   if satisfactory, forwards the message to the receiving service
   example.com.

   The receiving service uses the recipient's contact catalog and other
   information to determine if the message should be accepted. If
   accepted, the message is added to the recipient's inbound message
   spool to be collected by her device(s) when needed.

   For efficiency and to limit the scope for abuse, all inbound Mesh
   Messages are subject to access control and limited in size to 32KB or
   less. This limit has proved adequate to support transfer of complex
   control messages and short content messages. Transfer of data objects
   of arbitrary size may be achieved by sending a control message
   containing a URI for the main content which may then be fetched using
   a protocol such as HTTP.

   This approach makes transfers of very large data sets (i.e. multiple
   Terabytes) practical as the 'push' phase of the protocol is limited
   to the transfer of the initial control message. The bulk transfer is
   implemented as a 'pull' protocol allowing support for features such
   as continuous integrity checking and resumption of an interrupted
   transfer.

3.3. Using the Mesh with Applications

   The Mesh provides an infrastructure for supporting existing Internet
   security applications and a set security features that may be used to
   build new ones.

   For example, Alice uses the Mesh to provision and maintain the keys
   she uses for OpenPGP, S/MIME, SSH and IPSEC. She also uses the
   credential catalog for end-to-end secure management of the usernames
   and passwords for her Web browsing and other purposes:

   The Mesh design is highly modular allowing components that were
   originally designed to support a specific requirement within the Mesh
   to be applied generally.



Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 15]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020


3.3.1. Contact Exchange

   One of the chief concerns in any PKI is the means by which the public
   keys of other users are obtained and validated. This is of particular
   importance in the Mesh since every Mesh Message is subject to access
   control and it is thus necessary for Alice to accept Bob's
   credentials before Bob send most types of message to Alice.

   The Mesh supports multiple mechanisms for credential exchange. If
   Alice and Bob meet in person and are carrying their smart phones, a
   secure mutual exchange of credentials can be achieved by means of a
   QR code mechanism. If they are at separate locations, Alice can
   choose between accepting Bob's contact information with or without
   additional verification according to the intended use.

3.3.2. Confirmation Protocol

   The basic device connection protocol requires the ability for one
   device to send a connection request to the Mesh service hosting the
   user's profile. To accept the device connection, the user connects to
   the service using an administration device, reviews the pending
   requests and creates the necessary device connection assertion if it
   is accepted.

   The confirmation protocol generalizes this communication pattern
   allowing any authorized party to post a short accept/reject question
   to the user who may (or may not) return a signed response. This
   feature can be used as improvement on traditional second factor
   authentication providing resistance to man-in-the-middle attacks and
   providing a permanent non-repudiable indication of the user's
   specific intent.

3.3.3. Future Applications

   Since a wide range of network applications may be reduced to
   synchronization of sets and lists, the basic primitives of Catalogs
   and Spools may be applied to achieve end-to-end security in an even
   wider variety of applications.

   For example, a Spool may be used to maintain a mailing list, track
   comments on a Web forum or record annotations on a document.
   Encrypting the container entries under a multi-party encryption group
   allows such communications to be shared with a group of users while
   maintaining full end-to-end security and without requiring every
   party writing to the spool to know the public encryption key of every
   recipient.

   Another interesting possibility is the use of DARE Containers as a
   file archive mechanism. A single signature on the final Merkle Tree
   digest value would be sufficient to authenticate every file in the



Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 16]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

   archive. Updates to the archive might be performed using the same
   container synchronization primitives provided by a Mesh Service. This
   approach could afford a robust, secure and efficient mechanism for
   software distribution and update.

4. Mesh Cryptography

   All the cryptographic algorithms used in the Mesh are either industry
   standards or present a work factor that is provably equivalent to an
   industry standard approach.

   Existing Internet security protocols are based on approaches
   developed in the 1990s when performance tradeoffs were a prime
   consideration in the design of cryptographic protocols. Security was
   focused on the transport layer as it provided the best security
   possible given the available resources.

   With rare exceptions, most computing devices manufactured in the past
   ten years offer either considerably more computing power than was
   typical of 1990s era Internet connected machines or considerably
   less. The Mesh architecture is designed to provide security
   infrastructure both classes of machine but with the important
   constraint that the less capable 'constrained' devices are considered
   to be 'network capable' rather than 'Internet capable' and that the
   majority of Mesh related processing will be offloaded to another
   device.

   For example, Alice uses her Desktop and Laptop to exchange end-to-end
   secure Mesh Messages and documents but her Internet-of-Things food
   blender and light bulb are limited in the range of functions they
   support and the telemetry information they provide. The IoT devices
   connect to a Mesh Hub which acts as an always-on point of presence
   for the device state and allows complex cryptographic operations to
   be offloaded if necessary.

4.1. Best Practice by Default

   Except where support for external applications demand otherwise, the
   Mesh requires that the following 'best practices' be followed:

         Industry Standard Algorithms

         Strongest Work Factor

         Key Hygiene

         Bound Device Keys

         No Optional Extras





Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 17]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

4.2. Multi-Level Security

   All Mesh protocol transactions are protected at the Transport,
   Message and Data level. This provides security in depth that cannot
   be achieved by applying security at the separate levels
   independently. Data level encryption provides end-to-end
   confidentiality and non-repudiation, Message level authentication
   provides the basis for access control and Transport level encryption
   provides a degree of protection against traffic analysis.

4.3. Multi-Key Decryption

   Traditional public key encryption algorithms have two keys, one for
   encryption and another for decryption. The Mesh makes use of
   threshold cryptography techniques to allow the decryption key to be
   split into two or more parts.

   For example, if we have a private key z, we can use this to perform a
   key agreement with a public key S to obtain the key agreement value
   A. But if z = (x+y) mod g (where g is the order of the group). we can
   obtain the exact same result by applying the private keys x and y to
   S separately and combining the results:

   The approach to Multi-Key Decryption used in the Mesh was originally
   inspired by the work of Matt Blaze et. al. on proxy re-encryption.
   But the approach used may also be considered a form of Torben
   Pedersen's Distributed Key generation.

   This technique is used in the Mesh to allow use of decryption key
   held by a user to be controlled by a cloud service without giving the
   cloud service the ability to decrypt by itself.

4.4. Multi-Party Key Generation

   The mathematics that support multi-key decryption are also the basis
   for the multi-party key generation mechanism that is applied at
   multiple levels in the Mesh. The basis for the multi-party key
   generation used in the Mesh is that for any Diffie-Hellman type
   cryptographic scheme, given two keypairs { x, X }, { y, Y }, we
   calculate the public key corresponding to the private key x + y using
   just the public key values X and Y.

   Multi-party key generation ensures that keys used to bind devices to
   a personal Mesh or within a Mesh account are 'safe' if any of the
   contributions to the generation process are safe.

4.5. Data At Rest Encryption

   The Data At Rest Encryption (DARE) format is used for all
   confidentiality and integrity enhancements. The DARE format is based
   on the JOSE Signature and Encryption formats and the use of an



Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 18]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

   extended version of the JSON encoding allowing direct encoding of
   binary objects.

4.5.1. DARE Envelope

   The DARE Envelope format offers similar capabilities to existing
   formats such as OpenPGP and CMS without the need for onerous encoding
   schemes. DARE Assertions are presented as DARE Envelopes.

   A feature of the DARE Envelope format not supported in existing
   schemes is the ability to encrypt and authenticate sets of data
   attributes separately from the payload. This allows features such as
   the ability to encrypt a subject line or content type for a message
   separately from the payload.

4.5.2. Dare Container

   A DARE Container is an append-only sequence of DARE Envelopes. A key
   feature of the DARE Container format is that entries MAY be encrypted
   and/or authenticated incrementally. Individual entries MAY be
   extracted from a DARE Container to create a stand-alone DARE
   Envelope.

   Containers may be authenticated by means of a Merkle tree of digest
   values on the individual frames. This allows similar demonstrations
   of integrity to those afforded by Blockchain to be provided but with
   much greater efficiency.

   Unlike traditional encryption formats which require a new public key
   exchange for each encrypted payload, the DARE Container format allows
   multiple entries to be encrypted under a single key exchange
   operation. This is particularly useful in applications such as
   encrypting server transaction logs. The server need only perform a
   single key exchange operation is performed each time it starts to
   establish a master key. The master key is then used to create fresh
   symmetric keying material for each entry in the log using a unique
   nonce per entry.

   Integrity is provided by a Merkle tree calculated over the sequence
   of log entries. The tree apex is signed at regular intervals to
   provide non-repudiation.

   Three types of DARE Containers are used in the mesh

         Catalogs

         Spools

         Archives





Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 19]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

4.6. Uniform Data Fingerprints.

   The Uniform Data Fingerprint (UDF) format provides a compact means of
   presenting cryptographic nonces, keys and digest values using Base32
   encoding that resists semantic substitution attacks. UDF provides a
   convenient format for data entry. Since the encoding used is case-
   insensitive, UDFs may if necessary be read out over a voice link
   without excessive inconvenience.

   The following are examples of UDF values:

   NB2U-NLDC-ZBEJ-VPWS-AHWM-CA72-4AMA
   EALD-BHS4-SQXO-V7HJ-VPGX-36DA-JS2Q
   SAQK-72HP-JWES-6CWN-JKTU-PW7X-FAOL-W
   MB5S-R4AJ-3FBT-7NHO-T26Z-2E6Y-WFH4
   KCM5-7VB6-IJXJ-WKHX-NZQF-OKGZ-EWVN
   ACJJ-XRYN-VS32-PYSM-MX7W-64VQ-RNJX

   UDF content digests are used to support a direct trust model similar
   to that of OpenPGP. Every Mesh Profile is authenticated by the UDF
   fingerprint of its signature key. Mesh Friendly Names and UDF
   Fingerprints thus serve analogous functions to DNS names and IP
   Addresses. Like DNS names, Friendly Names provide the basis for
   application-layer interactions while the UDF Fingerprints are used as
   to provide the foundation for security.

4.6.1. Friendly Names

   Internet addressing schemes are designed to provide a globally unique
   (or at minimum unambiguous) name for a host, service or account. In
   the early days of the Internet, this resulted in addresses such as
   10.2.3.4 and alice@example.com which from a usability point of view
   might be considered serviceable if not ideal. Today the Internet is a
   global infrastructure servicing billions of users and tens of
   billions of devices and accounts are more likely to be
   alice.lastname.1934@example.com than something memorable.

   Friendly names provide a user or community specific means of
   identifying resources that may take advantage of geographic location
   or other cues to resolve possible ambiguity. If Alice says to her
   voice activated device "close the garage door" it is implicit that it
   is her garage door that she wishes to close. And should Alice be
   fortunate enough to own two houses with a garage, it is implicit that
   it is the garage door of the house she is presently using that she
   wishes to close.

   The Mesh Device Catalog provides a directory mapping friendly names
   to devices that is available to all Alice's connected devices so that
   she may give and instruction to any of her devices using the same
   friendly name and expect consistent results.




Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 20]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

4.6.2. Encrypted Authenticated Resource Locators

   Various schemes have been used to employ QR Codes as a means of
   device and/or user authentication. In many of these schemes a QR code
   contains a challenge nonce that is used to authenticate the
   connection request.

   The Mesh supports a QR code connection mode employing the Encrypted
   Authenticated Resource Locator (EARL) format. An EARL is an
   identifier which allows an encrypted data object to be retrieved and
   decrypted. In this case, the encrypted data object contains the
   information needed to complete the interaction.

   An EARL contains the domain name of the service providing the
   resolution service and an encryption master key:

   udf://example.com/ECQ4-KEU2-LRMG-UUUP-FGJ2-SZTP-WF4V-XE

   The EARL may be expressed as a QR code:

   An EARL is resolved by presenting the content digest fingerprint of
   the encryption key to a Web service hosted at the specified domain.
   The service returns a DARE Envelope whose payload is encrypted and
   authenticated under the specified master key. Since the content is
   stored on the service under the fingerprint of the key and not the
   key itself, the service cannot decrypt the plaintext. Only a party
   that has access to the encryption key in the QR code can decrypt the
   message.

4.6.3. Secure Internet Names

   Secure Internet Names bind an Internet address such as a URL or an
   email address to a Security Policy by means of a UDF content digest
   of a document describing the security policy. This binding enables a
   SIN-aware Internet client to ensure that the security policy is
   applied when connecting to the address. For example, ensuring that an
   email sent to an address must be end-to-end encrypted under a
   particular public key or that access to a Web Service requires a
   particular set of security enhancements.

         alice@example.com

         alice@mm--uuuu-uuuu-uuuu.example.com

         alice@example.com.mm--uuuu-uuuu-uuuu

   Using an email address that has the Security Policy element as a
   prefix allows a DNS wildcard element to be defined that allows the
   address to be used with any email client. Presenting the Security
   Policy element as a suffix means it can only be resolved by a SIN-
   aware client.



Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 21]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020


4.7. Personal Key Escrow

   One of the core objectives of the Mesh is to make data level
   encryption ubiquitous. While data level encryption provides robust
   protection of data confidentiality, loss of the ability to decrypt
   means data loss.

   For many Internet users, data availability is a considerably greater
   concern than confidentiality. Ten years later, there is no way to
   replace pictures of the children at five years old. Recognizing the
   need to guarantee data recovery, the Mesh provides a robust personal
   key escrow and recovery mechanism. Lawful access is not supported as
   a requirement.

   Besides supporting key recovery in the case of loss, the Mesh
   protocols potentially support key recovery in the case of the key
   holder's death. The chief difficulty faced in implementing such a
   scheme being developing an acceptable user interface which allows the
   user to specify which of their data should survive them and which
   should not. As the apothegm goes: Mallet wants his beneficiaries to
   know where he buried Aunt Agatha's jewels but not where he buried
   Aunt Agatha.

   The Mesh supports use of Shamir Secret Sharing to split a secret key
   into a set of shares, a predetermined number of which may be used to
   recover the original secret. For convenience secret shares are
   represented using UDF allowing presentation in Base32 (i.e. text
   format) for easy transcription or QR code presentation if preferred.

   A Mesh Profile is escrowed by creating a recovery record containing
   the private keys corresponding to the master signature and master
   escrow keys associated with the profile. A master secret is then
   generated which is used to generate a symmetric encryption key used
   to encrypt the recovery record and to generate the desired number of
   recovery shares. For example, Alice escrows her Mesh Profile creating
   three recovery shares, two of which are required to recover the
   master secret:

   To recover the master secret, Alice presents the necessary number of
   key shares. These are used to recover the master secret which is used
   to generate the decryption key.

   A user may choose to store their encrypted recovery record themselves
   or make use of the EARL mechanism to store the information at one or
   more cloud services using the fingerprint of the master secret as the
   locator.







Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 22]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

5. User Experience

   This section describes the Mesh in use. These use cases described
   here are re-visited in the companion Mesh Schema Reference  and Mesh
   Protocol Reference  with additional examples and details.

   For clarity and for compactness, these use cases are illustrated
   using the command line tool meshman.

   The original design brief for the Mesh was to make it easier to use
   the Internet securely. Over time, it was realized that users are
   almost never prepared to sacrifice usability or convenience for
   security. It is therefore insufficient to minimize the cost of
   security, if secure applications are to be used securely they must be
   at least as easy to use as those they replace. If security features
   are to be used, they must not require the user to make any additional
   effort whatsoever.

   The key to meeting this constraint is that any set of instructions
   that can be written down to be followed by a user can be turned into
   code and executed by machine. Provided that the necessary
   authentication, integrity and confidentiality controls are provided.
   Thus, the Mesh is not just a cryptographic infrastructure that makes
   use of computer systems more secure, it is a usability infrastructure
   that makes computers easier to use by providing security.

   The user experience is thus at the heart of the design of the Mesh
   and a description of the Mesh Architecture properly begins with
   consideration of the view of the system that matters most: that of
   the user.

   The principle security protocols in use today were designed at a time
   when most Internet users made use of either a single machine or one
   of a number of shared machines connected to a shared file store. The
   problem of transferring cryptographic keys and configuration data
   between machines was rarely considered and when it was considered was
   usually implemented badly. Today the typical user owns or makes use
   of multiple devices they recognize as a computer (laptop, tablet) and
   an even greater number of devices that they do not recognize as
   computers but are (almost any device with a display).

5.1. Creating a Mesh Profile and Administration Device.

   The first step in using the Mesh is to create a personal profile.
   From the user's point of view a profile is a collection of all the
   configuration data for all the Mesh enabled devices and services that
   they interact with.







Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 23]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

   Alice> mesh create
   Device Profile UDF=MAKJ-PBFP-LU5T-5Z34-YITA-PHYT-F5QS
   Personal Profile UDF=MDKD-XTUR-GFP4-QD52-STNB-Q7GS-MEWW

   Note that the user does not specify the cryptographic algorithms to
   use. Choice of cryptographic algorithm is primarily the concern of
   the protocol designer, not the user. The only circumstance in which
   users would normally be involved in algorithm selection is when there
   is a transition in progress from one algorithm suite to another.

5.2. Mesh Accounts

   Add an account to the personal Mesh:

   Alice> account create personal
   Account=MBAL-44YZ-X4GX-USBL-JAMU-AW32-SLBQ

   A Mesh Catalog contains a set of entries, each of which has a unique
   object identifier. Catalog entries may be added, updated or deleted.

   By default, all catalog entries are encrypted. Applying the Default
   Deny principle, in normal circumstances, the Mesh Service is not
   capable of decrypting any catalog excepting the Contacts catalog
   which is used as a source of authorization data in the Access Control
   applied to inbound messaging requests.

   For example, the entries in the credentials catalog specify username
   and password credentials used to access Internet services. Adding
   credentials to her catalog allows Alice to write scripts that access
   password protected resources without including the passwords in the
   scripts themselves:

   Alice> password add ftp.example.com alice1 password
   alice1@ftp.example.com = [password]
   Alice> password add www.example.com alice@example.com newpassword
   alice@example.com@www.example.com = [newpassword]
   Alice> password list
   alice1@ftp.example.com = [password]
   alice@example.com@www.example.com = [newpassword]
   Alice> password add ftp.example.com alice1 newpassword
   alice1@ftp.example.com = [newpassword]
   Alice> password get ftp.example.com
   alice1@ftp.example.com = [newpassword]

5.3. Using a Mesh Service

   A Mesh Service provides an 'always available' point of presence that
   is used to exchange data between devices connected to the connected
   profile and send and receive Mesh Messages to and from other Mesh
   users.




Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 24]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

   To use a Mesh Service, a user creates a Mesh Service account. This is
   analogous to an SMTP email service but with the important distinction
   that the protocol is designed to allow users to change their Mesh
   Service provider at any time they choose with minimal impact.

   The account is created by sending an account registration request to
   the chosen Mesh Service. If accepted, the Mesh Service creates a new
   account and creates containers to hold the associated catalogs and
   spools:

   Alice> account register alice@example.com
   Account=MBAL-44YZ-X4GX-USBL-JAMU-AW32-SLBQ

   As with any other Internet service provision, Mesh Service providers
   may impose constraints on the use of their service such as the amount
   of data they send, store and receive and charge a fee for their
   service.

5.4. Connecting and Authorizing Additional Devices

   Having established a Mesh profile, a user may connect any number of
   devices to it. Connecting a device to a Mesh profile allows it to
   share data with, control and be controlled by other devices connected
   to the profile.

   Although any type of network capable device may be connected to a
   Mesh profile, some devices are better suited for use with certain
   applications than others. Connecting an oven to a Mesh profile could
   allow it to be controlled through entries to the user's recipe and
   calendar catalogs and alert the user when the meal is ready but
   attempting to use it to read emails or manage Mesh profiles.

   Three connection mechanisms are currently specified, each of which
   provides strong mutual authentication: Direct, PIN and QR.

   Since approval of a connection request requires the creation of a
   signed Connection Assertion, requests must be approved by a device
   that has access to an administration key authorized by the user's
   Master Profile. Such devices are referred to as Administration
   devices. Administration devices must have data entry (e.g. keyboard)
   and output (e.g. display) affordances to support any of the currently
   defined connection mechanisms. The QR code connection mechanism also
   requires a suitable camera.

   It will be noted that the process of connecting a device that
   contains a preconfigured set of device keys might in principle expose
   the user to the risk that the manufacturer has retained knowledge of
   these keys and that this might be used to create a 'backdoor'.






Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 25]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

   This risk is controlled using the key co-generation technique
   described earlier. The original device profile is combined with a
   device profile provided by the user to create a composite device
   profile. This ensures that every device uses a unique profile even if
   they are initialized from a shared firmware image containing a fixed
   set of device key pairs.

5.4.1. Direct Connection

   The direct connection mechanism requires that both the administration
   device and the device originating the connection request have data
   entry and output affordances and that it is possible for the user to
   compare the authentication codes presented by the two devices to
   check that they are identical.

   The connection request is initiated on the device being connected:

   Alice2> device request alice@example.com
      Witness value = M4J5-YPNB-2O3U-35FZ-PC6G-SP6R-4LBD
      Personal Mesh = MDKD-XTUR-GFP4-QD52-STNB-Q7GS-MEWW

   Using her administration device, Alice gets a list of pending
   requests. Seeing that there is a pending request matching the witness
   value presented by the device, Alice accepts it:

   Alice> device pending
   Alice> device accept NCGP-WWTX-4HDR-YR2I-N5DO-TYBJ-C4X7

   The new device will now synchronize automatically in response to any
   Mesh commands. For example,  listing the password catalog:

   Alice2> password list
   ERROR - Object reference not set to an instance of an object.

5.4.2. Pin Connection

   The PIN Connection mechanism is similar to the Direct connection
   mechanism except that the process is initiated on an administration
   device by requesting assignment of a new authentication PIN. The PIN
   is then input to the connecting device to authenticate the request.

   The PIN connection mechanism begins with the issue of the PIN:

   Alice> account pin
   PIN=NCGD-ZOQL-JRVF-TALA-EY (Expires=2020-01-23T01:18:57Z)

   The PIN code is transmitted out of band to the device being
   connected:






Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 26]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

   Alice3> device request alice@example.com /pin=NCGD-ZOQL-JRVF-TALA-EY
      Witness value = XNLM-MOF2-KNZS-3HCO-WOEO-BOTN-Y6G2
      Personal Mesh = MDKD-XTUR-GFP4-QD52-STNB-Q7GS-MEWW

   Since the request was pre-authorized, it is not necessary for Alice
   to explicitly accept the connection request but the administration
   device is needed to create the connection assertion:

   Alice> device pending

   We can check the device connection by attempting to synchronize to
   the profile account:

   Alice3> account sync
   ERROR - Object reference not set to an instance of an object.

   Note that this connection mechanism could be adapted to allow a
   device with a  camera affordance to connect by scanning a QR code on
   the administration device.

   If the Device Profile fingerprint is known at the time the PIN is
   generated, this can be bound to the PIN authorization assertion to
   permit connection of a specific device.

5.4.3. EARL/QR Code Connection

   The EARL/QR code connection mechanisms are used to connect a
   constrained device to a Mesh profile by means of an Encrypted
   Authenticated Resource Locator, typically presented as a QR code on
   the device itself or its packaging.

   Since the meshman tool does not support QR input, it is decoded using
   a separate tool to recover the UDF EARL which is presented as a
   command line parameter:

   To use the device QR code connection mechanism, we require a Web
   service that will host the connection document example.com and a
   MeshService account that the device will attempt to  complete the
   connection by requesting synchronization devices@example.com.

   To begin the process we generate a new random key and combine it with
   the service to create an EARL:

   udf://example.com/ECQ4-KEU2-LRMG-UUUP-FGJ2-SZTP-WF4V-XE

   Next a device profile is created and preregistered on with the Mesh
   Service that will provide the hailing service. Since we are only
   preparing one device it is convenient to do this on the device
   itself. In a manufacturing scenario, these steps would typically  be
   performed offline in bulk.




Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 27]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

   Alice4> device pre devices@example.com /key=udf://example.com/ECQ4-KEU2-LRMG-UUUP-FGJ2-SZTP-WF4V-XE
   ERROR - Object reference not set to an instance of an object.

   Once initialized the device attempts to poll the service for a
   connection each time it is powered on, when a connection button
   affordance on the device is pressed or at other times as agreed with
   the Mesh Service Provider:

   Alice4> account sync
   ERROR - Object reference not set to an instance of an object.

   To connect the device to her profile, Alice scans the device with her
   administration  device to obtain the UDF. The administration device
   retrieves the connection description,  decrypts it and then uses the
   information in the description to create the necessary Device
   Connection Assertion and connect to the device hailing Mesh Service
   Account to  complete the process:

   Alice> device earl udf://example.com/ECQ4-KEU2-LRMG-UUUP-FGJ2-SZTP-WF4V-XE
   ERROR - Object reference not set to an instance of an object.

   When the device next attempts to connect to the hailing service, it
   receives the Device  Connection Assertion:

   Alice4> account sync
   ERROR - Object reference not set to an instance of an object.

5.5. Contact Requests

   As previously stated, every inbound Mesh message is subject to access
   control. The user's contact catalog is used as part of the access
   control authentication and authorization mechanism.

   By default, the only form of inbound message that is accepted without
   authorization in the contact catalog is a contact request. Though for
   certain Mesh users (e.g. politicians, celebrities) even contact
   requests might require some form of prior approval (e.g. endorsement
   by a mutual friend).

   A Mesh Contact Assertion may be limited to stating the user's profile
   fingerprint and Mesh Service Account(s). For most purposes however,
   it is more convenient to present a Contact Assertion that contains at
   least as much information as is typically provided on a business or
   calling card:










Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 28]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

   Alice creates a contact entry for herself:

   Alice> contact self email alice@example.com
   {
     "Self": true,
     "Key": "NAB7-U4XN-VGYE-5JUS-SVXK-AGPN-VSEZ",
     "EnvelopedContact": [{},
       "ewogICJDb250YWN0IjogewogICAgIkFkZHJlc3Nlcy
     I6IFt7CiAgICAgICAgIlVSSSI6ICJtYWlsdG86e2VtYWlsfSJ9XX19"]}

   User's may create multiple Contact Assertions for use in different
   circumstances. A user might not want to give their home address to a
   business contact or their business address to a personal friend.

5.5.1. Remote

   In the most general case, the participants are remote from each other
   and one user must make a contact request of the other:

   Bob requests Alice add him to her contacts catalog:

   Bob> message contact alice@example.com

   When Alice next checks her messages, she sees the pending contact
   request from Bob and accepts it. Bob's contact details are added to
   her catalog and Bob receives a response containing Alice's
   credentials:

   Alice> message pending
   Alice> message accept tbs

5.5.2. Static QR Code

   A DARE contact entry may be exchanged by means of an EARL UDF. This
   is typically presented by means of a QR code which may be created
   using the meshman tool and a QR code generator. The resulting QR code
   may be printed on a business card, laser engraved on a luggage tag,
   etc.

   To accept the contact request, the recipient merely scans the code
   with a Mesh capable QR code reader. They are asked if they wish to
   accept the contact request and what privileges they wish to authorize
   for the new contact.

5.5.3. Dynamic QR Code

   If it is possible for the device to generate a new QR code for the
   contact request, it is possible to support bi-directional exchange of
   credentials with strong mutual authentication.





Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 29]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

   For example, Alice selects the contact credential she wishes to pass
   to Bob on her mobile device which presents an EARL as a QR code. Bob
   scans the QR code with his mobile device which retrieves Alice's
   credential and asks if Bob wishes to accept it and if he wishes to
   share his credential with Alice. If Bob agrees, his device makes a
   Remote Contact request authenticated under a key passed to his device
   with Alice's Contact Assertion.

   The Dynamic QR Code protocol may be applied to support exchange of
   credentials between larger groups. Enrolling the contact assertions
   collected in such circumstances in a notarized append only log (e.g.
   a DARE Container) provides a powerful basis for building a Web of
   Trust that is equivalent to but considerably more convenient than
   participation in PGP Key Signing parties.

5.6. Sharing Confidential Data in the Cloud

   As previously discussed, the Mesh makes use of multi-party encryption
   techniques to mitigate the risk of a device compromise leading to
   disclosure of confidential data. The Mesh also allows these
   techniques to be applied to provide Confidential Document Control.
   This provides data encryption capabilities that are particularly
   suited to 'cloud computing' environments.

   A Mesh Encryption Group is a special type of Mesh Service Account
   that is controlled by one of more group administrators. The
   Encryption Group Key is a normal ECDH public key used in the normal
   manner. The decryption key is held by the group administrator. To add
   a user to the group, the administrator splits the group private key
   into two parts, a service key and a user key. These parts are
   encrypted under the public encryption keys of their assigned parties.
   The encrypted key parts form a decryption entry for the user is added
   to the Members Catalog of the Encryption Group at the Mesh Service.

   When a user needs to decrypt a document encrypted under the group
   key, they make a request to the Mesh Service which checks to see that
   they are authorized to read that particular document, have not
   exceeded their decryption quota, etc. If the request is approved, the
   service returns the partial decryption result obtained from the
   service's key part together with the encrypted user key part. To
   complete the decryption process, the user decrypts their key part and
   uses it to create a second partial decryption result which is
   combined with the first to obtain the key agreement value needed to
   complete the decryption process.

   Alice creates the recryption group groupw@example.com to share
   confidential information with her closest friends:







Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 30]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

   Alice> group create groupw@example.com
   {
     "Profile": {
       "KeyOfflineSignature": {
         "UDF": "MCJ5-HMK2-SUBS-MOCG-J5IS-S2GT-IY7D",
         "PublicParameters": {
           "PublicKeyECDH": {
             "crv": "Ed448",
             "Public": "bNfUzYfsJJthhioeCukz03BQ9wJWD-2i_0GoDznzdhqEu8eE9iVo
     VAJDOF2gDnMxvkfnBsJk55GA"}}},
       "KeyEncryption": {
         "UDF": "MC25-LCSY-DUTQ-YBUL-XXCI-RLIZ-JHIL",
         "PublicParameters": {
           "PublicKeyECDH": {
             "crv": "Ed448",
             "Public": "sx8WWkgH6k4u8RchFZitCRTvncvWje1xog-cyx4kka9kwmFwlDTi
     t2JXFFalq-LJ-RQlu9eIuP-A"}}}}}

   Bob encrypts a test file but he can't decrypt it because he isn't in
   the group:

   Bob> dare encodeTestFile1.txt /out=TestFile1-group.dare /encrypt=groupw@example.com
   ERROR - The command  is not known.
   Bob> dare decode  TestFile1-group.dare
   ERROR - Could not find file 'C:\Users\hallam\Test\WorkingDirectory\TestFile1-group.dare'.

   Since she is the group administrator, Alice can decrypt the test file
   using the group decryption key:

   Alice> dare decode  TestFile1-group.dare
   ERROR - Could not find file 'C:\Users\hallam\Test\WorkingDirectory\TestFile1-group.dare'.

   Adding Bob to the group gives him immediate access to any file
   encrypted under the group key without making any change to the
   encrypted files:

   Alice> dare decode  TestFile1-group.dare
   ERROR - Could not find file 'C:\Users\hallam\Test\WorkingDirectory\TestFile1-group.dare'.

   Removing Bob from the group immediately withdraws his access.

   Alice> group delete groupw@example.com bob@example.com
   ERROR - The feature has not been implemented

   Bob cannot decrypt any more files (but he may have kept copies of
   files he decrypted  earlier).








Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 31]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

   Alice> dare decode  TestFile1-group.dare
   ERROR - Could not find file 'C:\Users\hallam\Test\WorkingDirectory\TestFile1-group.dare'.

   Should requirements demand, the same principle may be applied to
   achieve separation of duties in the administration roles. Instead of
   provisioning the group private key to a single administrator, it may
   be split into two or more parts. Adding a user to the group requires
   each of the administrators to create a decryption entry for the user
   and for the service and user to apply the appropriate operations to
   combine the key parts available to them before use.

   These techniques could even be extended to support complex
   authorization requirements such as the need for 2 out of 3
   administrators to approve membership of the group. A set of
   decryption entries is complete if the sum of the key parts is equal
   to the private key (modulo the order of the curve).

   Thus, if the set of administrators is A, B and C and the private key
   is k, we can ensure that it requires exactly two administrators to
   create a complete set of decryption entries by issuing key set { a }
   to A, the key set {k-a , b } to B and the key set {k-a , k-b } to C
   (where a and b are randomly generated keys).

5.7. Escrow and Recovery of Keys

   One of the chief objections made against deployment of Data Level
   encryption is that although it provides the strongest possible
   protection of the confidentiality of the data, loss of the decryption
   keys means loss of the encrypted data. Thus, a robust and effective
   key escrow mechanism is essential if use of encryption is to ever
   become commonplace for stored data.

   The use of a 'life-long' Mesh profiles raises a similar concern. Loss
   of a Master Signature Key potentially means the loss of the ability
   to control devices connected to the profile and the accumulated trust
   endorsements of other users.

   Because of these requirements, Mesh users are strongly advised but
   not required to create a backup copy of the private keys
   corresponding to their Master Profile Signature and Escrow keys.

   Users may use the key escrow mechanism of their choice including the
   escrow mechanism supported by the Mesh itself which uses Shamir
   Secret Sharing to escrow the encryption key for a DARE Envelope
   containing the private key information.

   To escrow a key set, the user specifies the number of key shares to
   be created and the number required for recovery.






Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 32]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

   Alice> mesh escrow
   Share: SAQE-Y4MW-BH55-ZL57-4XFP-PQVZ-VLHT-U7C3-X2BA-ZOCW-75EE-KZZM-3KSQ-E47T-O26A-I
   Share: SAQZ-QGZL-CPK4-DXZN-EOWK-2AAO-DS76-6JV2-ZXUB-YSVJ-TJKK-ONXT-CDVB-S633-ZANC-M
   Share: SARO-HRGA-DWX2-ODU2-MGHG-EPLC-R2YK-HUIZ-3VHC-XXH4-GVQQ-SBVZ-I4XT-BAYE-DF4E-Q

   Recovery of the key data requires the key recovery record and a
   quorum of the key shares:

   Alice> mesh recover $SAQE-Y4MW-BH55-ZL57-4XFP-PQVZ-VLHT-U7C3-X2BA-ZOCW-75EE-KZZM-3KSQ-E47T-O26A-I $SARO-HRGA-DWX2-ODU2-MGHG-EPLC-R2YK-HUIZ-3VHC-XXH4-GVQQ-SBVZ-I4XT-BAYE-DF4E-Q /verify
   Device Profile UDF=MAZC-3DVD-LIWY-A6UV-XGWR-GSBA-62YB
   Personal Profile UDF=MDKD-XTUR-GFP4-QD52-STNB-Q7GS-MEWW

   Having recovered the Master Signature Key, the user can now create a
   new master profile authorizing a new administration device which can
   be used to authenticate access to the Mesh Service Account(s)
   connected to the master profile.

6. Security Considerations

   The security considerations for use and implementation of Mesh
   services and applications are described in the Mesh Security
   Considerations guide .

7. IANA Considerations

   This document does not contain actions for IANA

8. Acknowledgements

   Comodo Group: Egemen Tas, Melhi Abdulhayo?lu, Rob Stradling, Robin
   Alden.

References

Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, DOI
              10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997.

   [draft-hallambaker-web-service-discovery]  Hallam-Baker, P, "DNS Web
              Service Discovery", Internet-Draft draft-hallambaker-web-
              service-discovery-03, 23 October 2019.

   [draft-hallambaker-jsonbcd]  Hallam-Baker, P, "Binary Encodings for
              JavaScript Object Notation: JSON-B, JSON-C, JSON-D",
              Internet-Draft draft-hallambaker-jsonbcd-15, 23 October
              2019.






Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 33]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

   [draft-hallambaker-mesh-cryptography]  Hallam-Baker, P, "Mathematical
              Mesh 3.0 Part VIII: Cryptographic Algorithms", Internet-
              Draft draft-hallambaker-mesh-cryptography-05, 16 January
              2020.

   [draft-hallambaker-mesh-security]  Hallam-Baker, P, "Mathematical
              Mesh 3.0 Part VII: Security Considerations", Internet-
              Draft draft-hallambaker-mesh-security-03, 16 January 2020.

   [draft-hallambaker-mesh-trust]  Hallam-Baker, P, "Mathematical Mesh
              3.0 Part VI: The Trust Mesh", Internet-Draft draft-
              hallambaker-mesh-trust-04, 16 January 2020.

   [draft-hallambaker-mesh-protocol]  Hallam-Baker, P, "Mathematical
              Mesh 3.0 Part V: Protocol Reference", Internet-Draft
              draft-hallambaker-mesh-protocol-04, 16 January 2020.

   [draft-hallambaker-mesh-developer]  Hallam-Baker, P, "Mathematical
              Mesh: Reference Implementation", Internet-Draft draft-
              hallambaker-mesh-developer-09, 23 October 2019.

   [draft-hallambaker-mesh-schema]  Hallam-Baker, P, "Mathematical Mesh
              3.0 Part IV: Schema Reference", Internet-Draft draft-
              hallambaker-mesh-schema-05, 16 January 2020.

   [draft-hallambaker-mesh-udf]  Hallam-Baker, P, "Mathematical Mesh 3.0
              Part II: Uniform Data Fingerprint.", Internet-Draft draft-
              hallambaker-mesh-udf-08, 6 January 2020.

   [RFC7516]  Jones, M.,Hildebrand, J., "JSON Web Encryption (JWE)", RFC
              7516, DOI 10.17487/RFC7516, May 2015.

   [RFC7515]  Jones, M.,Bradley, J.,Sakimura, N., "JSON Web Signature
              (JWS)", RFC 7515, DOI 10.17487/RFC7515, May 2015.

   [RFC7159]  Bray, T., "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data
              Interchange Format", RFC 7159, DOI 10.17487/RFC7159, March
              2014.

   [RFC7231]  Fielding, R.,Reschke, J., "Hypertext Transfer Protocol
              (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and Content", RFC 7231, DOI
              10.17487/RFC7231, June 2014.

   [RFC5246]  Dierks, T.,Rescorla, E., "The Transport Layer Security
              (TLS) Protocol Version 1.2", RFC 5246, DOI
              10.17487/RFC5246, August 2008.

   [draft-hallambaker-mesh-dare]  Hallam-Baker, P, "Mathematical Mesh
              3.0 Part III : Data At Rest Encryption (DARE)", Internet-
              Draft draft-hallambaker-mesh-dare-06, 16 January 2020.




Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 34]

                         Mesh Architecture 3.0                March 2020

   [draft-hallambaker-mesh-platform]  Hallam-Baker, P, "Mathematical
              Mesh: Platform Configuration", Internet-Draft draft-
              hallambaker-mesh-platform-05, 23 October 2019.

Author's Address

   Phillip Hallam-Baker
   ThresholdSecrets.com

   phill@hallambaker.com












































Hallam-Baker           Expires September 10, 2020              [Page 35]
