Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)              Phillip Hallam-Baker
INTERNET-DRAFT                                         Comodo Group Inc.
Intended Status:  Experimental                             June 29, 2017
Expires: December 31, 2017


                      Strong Internet Names (SIN)
                        draft-hallambaker-sin-00

Abstract

   A Strong Internet Name is a DNS name that contains a cryptographic 
   binding to a security policy governing interpretation of the name. 
   This document describes the use of Strong Internet Names formed using
   a Uniform Data Fingerprint of a PKIX trust root and outlines the 
   additional capabilities that might be supported in a purpose written 
   policy language.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the 
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering 
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute 
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at http://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any 
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference 
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2017 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the 
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal 
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents 
   (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of 
   publication of this document. Please review these documents 
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must 
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of 
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as 
   described in the Simplified BSD License.









Hallam-Baker           Expires December 31, 2017                [Page 1]

Internet-Draft        Strong Internet Names (SIN)              June 2017

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
   2.  Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
      2.1.  Resolution  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
      2.2.  Implicit Security Policy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
      2.3.  Explicit Security Policy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
   3.  Specification  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
      3.1.  The UDF Format  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
      3.2.  Precision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
      3.3.  UDF Strong Labels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
   4.  Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
   5.  References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
      5.1.  Normative References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
   Author's Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8







































Hallam-Baker           Expires December 31, 2017                [Page 2]

Internet-Draft        Strong Internet Names (SIN)              June 2017

1. Introduction

   This document is written as a submission to the IAB workshop on 
   Explicit Internet Naming Systems. The proposal described here is a 
   mechanism that allows a security policy and cryptographic root of 
   trust to be introduced into any Internet identifier scheme that 
   includes a DNS name without introducing new syntax.

   Strong Internet Names (SINs) bring together concepts introduced in 
   the use of Strong Names introduced in the .Net security framework, 
   fingerprints as used in OpenPGP and security policy description.

   Incorporating a fingerprint of a root of trust into an identifier 
   produces an identifier whose interpretation is objective and does not
   depend on subjective assumptions as to whether a root of trust is 
   trustworthy or not.

   Since the SIN only includes the fingerprint of the root of trust, 
   rather than the root of trust itself, the process of interpretation 
   will of course require a means of retrieving the additional 
   information. 

2. Overview

   A SIN is an Internet Identifier that contains a fingerprint of a root
   of trust that may be used to verify the interpretation of the 
   identifier. This section describes the manner in which SINs are used.
   The following section describes their construction using Uniform Data
   Fingerprints [draft-hallambaker-udf-05]

   For example, Example Inc holds the domain name example.com and has 
   deployed a private CA whose root of trust is a PKIX certificate with 
   the UDF fingerprint MB2GK-6DUF5-YGYYL-JNY5E-RWSHZ.

   Alice is an employee of Example Inc., she uses three email addresses:

         alice@example.com
            A regular email address (not a SIN).

         alice@mm--mb2gk-6duf5-ygyyl-jny5e-rwshz.example.com
            A strong email address that is backwards compatible.

         alice@example.com.mm--mb2gk-6duf5-ygyyl-jny5e-rwshz
            A strong email address that is backwards incompatible.

   All three forms of the address are valid RFC822 addresses and may be 
   used in a legacy email client, stored in an address book application,
   etc. But the ability of a legacy client to make use of the address 
   differs. Addresses of the first type may always be used. Addresses of
   the second type may only be used if an appropriate MX record is 
   provisioned. Addresses of the third type will always fail unless the 



Hallam-Baker           Expires December 31, 2017                [Page 3]

Internet-Draft        Strong Internet Names (SIN)              June 2017

   resolver understands that it is a SIN requiring special processing.

   When specified as the destination address in a Mail User Application 
   (MUA), these addresses have the following interpretations:

         alice@example.com
            Send mail to Alice without requiring security enhancements.

         alice@mm--mb2gk-6duf5-ygyyl-jny5e-rwshz.example.com
            Send mail to Alice. If the MUA is SIN-Aware, it MUST resolve
            the security policy specified by the fingerprint and apply 
            security enhancements as mandated by that policy.

         alice@example.com.mm--mb2gk-6duf5-ygyyl-jny5e-rwshz
            Only send mail to Alice if the MUA is SIN-Aware, it MUST 
            resolve the security policy specified by the fingerprint and
            apply security enhancements as mandated by that policy.

   These rules allow Bob to send email to Alice with either 'best 
   effort' security or mandatory security as the circumstances demand.

2.1. Resolution

   Since a SIN only contains the fingerprint of a root of trust rather 
   than the root of trust itself, a mechanism is required to resolve the
   root of trust from the fingerprint. The mechanism by which this is 
   achieved is outside the scope of this document.

   The Mathematical Mesh is an infrastructure that is designed to 
   resolve fingerprints to policy. But it is not necessarily the case 
   that an entirely new infrastructure is required. The Mesh 
   architecture was conceived as a means of achieving resolution of a 
   SIN at a very granular level. In the Mesh, every user is their own 
   personal root of trust and decides which resources and trust 
   providers to delegate decisions to.

   For cases in which we do not require resolution of security policy 
   with resolution finer than a DNS domain, the DNS may be used for 
   resolution using the existing CERT record [RFC4398]

2.2. Implicit Security Policy

   A security policy may be implicit or explicit depending on the root 
   of trust referenced and the context in which it is used.

   Since many Internet applications are already designed to make use of 
   a PKIX based trust infrastructure, the fingerprint of a PKIX root of 
   trust provides sufficient information to deduce an appropriate 
   security policy in many instances. For example:





Hallam-Baker           Expires December 31, 2017                [Page 4]

Internet-Draft        Strong Internet Names (SIN)              June 2017

         https://mb2gk-6duf5-ygyyl-jny5e-rwshz.example.com/
            Connect to example.com using a TLS connection with a 
            certificate that is valid in a chain of trust that contains 
            a certificate with the fingerprint mb2gk.

         IMAP Server: mb2gk-6duf5-ygyyl-jny5e-rwshz.example.com
            Connect to the IMAP server example.com over a TLS connection
            with a certificate that is valid in a chain of trust that 
            contains a certificate with the fingerprint mb2gk.

         mailto:alice@example.com.mm--mb2gk-6duf5-ygyyl-jny5e-rwshz
            Encrypt mail messages using S/MIME using an S/MIME 
            certificate that is valid in a chain of trust that contains 
            a certificate with the fingerprint mb2gk.

2.3. Explicit Security Policy

   While the implicit security policy model is sufficient for some 
   purposes, it is less than ideal. An explicit security policy language
   permits much more detailed policy descriptions and links to resources
   that allow the policy to be realized.

   A comprehensive security policy for Example Inc. should contain:

         *  The public key for the DNSSEC root of trust for example.com

         *  The public key for the DNSSEC root of trust for the DNS root

         *  The roots of trust for TLS, S/MIME, etc.

         *  The set of WebPKI trust roots to be trusted by Web browsers.

         *  The security enhancements (S/MIME, OpenPGP) to be applied to
            messages.

         *  Security requirements for specific services (e.g. must use 
            TLS for inbound SMTP)

   Security policy may also be specified for particular applications. 
   For example, an email security policy for an individual user might 
   specify:

         *  Message security format (OpenPGP, S/MIME) and encryption 
            key(s) 

         *  Authentication requirement(s)

         *  Content restrictions (e.g. no executable attachments)






Hallam-Baker           Expires December 31, 2017                [Page 5]

Internet-Draft        Strong Internet Names (SIN)              June 2017

   It is very likely that to mitigate abuse a user would specify 
   separate security policies for known and unknown senders so that use 
   of end-to-end messaging, transfer of executable attachments, etc. are
   restricted to authorized senders.

   One option for expressing explicit security policy is to encode the 
   information in the DNS. Another, likely to be more satisfactory is to
   design a language for describing security policy.

3. Specification

   The specification consists of three parts, the description of the 
   fingerprint format itself, the means of encoding fingerprints within 
   DNS names and the means of describing the security policy.

3.1. The UDF Format

   The Uniform Data Fingerprint (UDF) format was designed to provide 
   common format for representing fingerprints of data objects formed 
   using a cryptographic digest function such as SHA-2 that was easier 
   on the eye than existing URI schemes such as ni. A UDF fingerprint is
   formed using Base32 with optional digit separators to improve 
   readability. The following is an example of a UDF:

   mb2gk-6duf5-ygyyl-jny5e-rwshz-sv75j

   Unlike traditional fingerprints calculated from the digest of the 
   data itself, a UDF is a strong function of both the referenced data 
   and the IANA content type.

   Fingerprint = <Version-ID> + H (<Content-ID> + ?:? + H(<Data>))

   This approach provides semantic separation between domains. This is 
   necessary to defeat substitution attacks such as presenting an 
   artfully constructed PKIX certificate in a context where a JSON data 
   structure is expected.

   The Version-ID parameter specifies both the digest function and the 
   method of application. Version-IDs are currently defined for SHA-2-
   512 and SHA-3-512. The values of these code points have been 
   intentionally chosen to cause the first digit to be either an M 
   (Merkle-Damgard) or an S (Sponge).

   The specification allows for fingerprint compression in the case that
   the leading 25, 40, 50 or 55 bits are all zero. This allows a 
   fingerprint of a public key represented in 20 characters (120 bits) 
   to present the same work factor to the attacker as a 25 character 
   fingerprint but at the cost of accepting a 2^25 increase in key 
   generation difficulty.





Hallam-Baker           Expires December 31, 2017                [Page 6]

Internet-Draft        Strong Internet Names (SIN)              June 2017

3.2. Precision

   A UDF fingerprint may be specified at any level of precision with the
   proviso that the work factor of a fingerprint must never be less than
   2^117 operations. The precision of a fingerprint may be reduced by 
   simply truncating the text presentation. 

   Since verification of a fingerprint requires the verifier to compute 
   the full SHA-2-512 hash value, an application may 'strengthen' the 
   fingerprint by storing it with higher precision (provided this does 
   not cause a field length limit to be exceeded. 

   For example, to configure her outbound email address, alice enters 
   the following as her email address:

   mm--mb2gk-6duf5-ygyyl-jny5e-rwshz.example.com

   The client resolves and verifies the root of trust and records the 
   following in the configuration file:

   Service: example.com

   Trust-root: mb2gk-6duf5-ygyyl-jny5e-rwshz-sv75j-c4ozq-5gin2

   This presents a work factor of 2^192 for subsequent interactions 
   while only requiring the user to type enough digits for a 2^117 .

3.3. UDF Strong Labels

   A Strong Internet Name is a DNS name in which one of the labels is a 
   prefixed UDF fingerprint of a document describing the security policy
   governing interpretation of the name. 

   For example, we may form a strong internet name from the fingerprint 
   above as follows:

   mm--mb2gk-6duf5-ygyyl-jny5e-rwshz.example.com

   example.com.mm--.mb2gk-6duf5-ygyyl-jny5e-rwshz

   The use of a prefix of the form xx-- to identify a DNS label with a 
   special interpretation was introduced to support internationalized 
   DNS names. The MM?prefix is proposed as Strong Internet Names were 
   originally developed as part of the Mathematical Mesh which builds on
   and extends the capabilities of strong names.

   The placement of the UDF entry in the string has no effect on 
   semantics but does affect resolution. In the first strong name, the 
   fingerprint appears at the leftmost of the name allowing it to be 
   resolved by any Internet application (provided the necessary DNS 
   records are provisioned). In the second case, the fingerprint appears



Hallam-Baker           Expires December 31, 2017                [Page 7]

Internet-Draft        Strong Internet Names (SIN)              June 2017

   as the root element. This means that the name cannot be resolved by 
   an application unless either the application or the DNS resolution 
   service it uses understands that the name is a SIN.

4. Implementation

   A prototype implementation is currently being built to make use of 
   SINs to secure email and interactions by means of a proxy.

   In the email implementation, the proxy is configured to apply 
   security enhancements to the outbound email (SUBMIT) service. The 
   proxy recognizes messages that are sent to mail addresses that 
   contain a SIN, and attempts to retrieve and apply the corresponding 
   security policy.

5. References

5.1. Normative References

   [RFC4398]  Josefsson, S., "Storing Certificates in the Domain Name 
              System (DNS)", RFC 4398, DOI 10.17487/RFC4398, March 2006.

   [draft-hallambaker-udf-05]  , "[Reference Not Found!]".

Author's Address

   Phillip Hallam-Baker
   Comodo Group Inc.

   philliph@comodo.com
























Hallam-Baker           Expires December 31, 2017                [Page 8]
